
# Introduction

Alaska National Wildlife Refuges have been given mandates to conserve natural biodiversity, habitats, biological integrity, and environmental health [@96th_Congress_1980; @105th_Congress_1997]. @Woodward_Beever_2010 noted that, under these broad purposes of National Wildlife Refuges in Alaska to protect natural landscapes and entire ecosystems, they must develop methods that can successfully monitor biodiversity. 

@Morton_et_al_2009 determined that the best way to measure biodiversity at the scale of Alaska Refuges was to document occurrences and co-occurrences of many species on a set of points distributed widely across the landscape. This kind of sampling scheme would yield species distributions and assemblages and, if repeated over time, could be used to assess whether Alaska Refuges were fulfilling their conservation purposes. @Magness_et_al_2008 demonstrated the utility of this sampling design for generating species distribution data that could serve this purpose.

A key deficiency identified by @Morton_et_al_2009 was an inability to feasibly monitor most of biodiversity due to the high cost and lengthy time required to obtain identifications for species in hyperdiverse groups, a well-known problem that has been referred to as the taxonomic impediment [@Taylor_1983]. Since that time, high-throughput sequencing (HTS) methods have emerged as a means to obtain many identfications from environmental samples. Multiple studies [@Gibson_et_al_2015; @Hajibabaei_et_al_2016; @Bowser_et_al_2017; @Bush_2019; @Bowser_et_al_2020] have demonstrated that assemblages of diverse taxa can be efficiently identified using these methods. 

The second deficiency recognized by @Morton_et_al_2009 and @Magness_et_al_2008 was the inability to account for imperfect detection. When a species is present but there is a chance that it will not be detected, this may lead to false negatives (i.e., recording an absence where a species is present), leading to bias in the resulting estimates of species distributions. MacKenzie et al. [-@MacKenzie_et_al_2002; -@MacKenzie_et_al_2006] presented occupancy modeling methods that can yield unbiased estimates of species occurrence and distributions. These models explicitly account for imperfect detection through spatially or temporally repeated sampling.

The biological inventory work of @Bowser_et_al_2020 was designed in part to provide the kind of occurrence data required for monitoring distributions of multiple species (i.e., monitoring assemblages of species) and accounting for imperfect detection by spatial subsampling. Our intent in this paper is to test the usefulness of the methods of @Bowser_et_al_2020 for delivering unbiased estimates of species occurrence and distributions of hyperdiverse taxa.
